README.md, before:

Rationale
---------

"Managers at many levels are just bursting with probabilistic knowledge, which if properly channeled can be put to good use."
 - Sam Savage, The Flaw of Averages

Use Estimates (numbers taken from user input, based on hard data, soft data, subject matter expertise)

Derive from real data (although needs to be right type)

Frequency should be over standard unit of time, usually a year

Data structures
---------------

Use firebase cloudstore schema concepts 'collections' (⇱) and 'maps' (⌌).

```
⇱ Risks
 ⌌ Risk
   ⌌ Scope
    ⊳ Description
   ⌌ ThreatFrequency
     ⌌ ThreatEventFrequency
     ⌌ ThreatForce
     ⌌ ThreatResistance
   ⌌ LossMagnitude
     ⌌ PrimaryLoss
     ⇱ SecondaryLosses
      ⌌ RiskReference

⇱ Distributions (Triangular?)
 ⌌ Estimate
  ⊳ Min
  ⊳ Med
  ⊳ Max
  ⌌ Rationale
   ⊳ Name of Person
   ⊳ Title
   ⊳ Data used to inform (historical events, logs, external sources)
   ⊳ Controls considered
   ⊳ Remaining uncertainty
```

Algorithms
----------

ExpectedRisk = CalculateRisk (RiskMap)
GeneratedDistribution = TriangularDistribution (Estimate)

User stories
------------

AS a leadership team I
 - want an aggregated, visible measure of risk for a particular PS account
   so that I am aware of all identified risks in order that I can fulfil my responsibilities 
   and I can allocate limited resources more effectively to manage that risk

AS a infosec lead I
 - need a record keeping system for storing details pertaining to risk related to Infosec
 - want a visible measure of risk for a particular PS account
   so that I am aware of all identified risks in order that I can fulfil my responsibilities 

AS legal I
 - want to be able to see record detailed information about the contractual infosec exposure on a specific account

AS a CST I 
 - want to be able to see detailed information about the contractual infosec exposure on my account


References
----------

- https://vimeo.com/70926140
- https://www.probabilitymanagement.org/stanford-webinar-videos
- https://mcdlr.com/utf-8/#8603
- http://blogs.reuters.com/felix-salmon/2009/08/23/the-flaw-of-averages/
- http://flawofaverages.com/lib/Red%20Words.pdf

Commit message:

added some thoughts and structure for testing

README.md, after:

Rationale
---------

"Managers at many levels are just bursting with probabilistic knowledge, which if properly channeled can be put to good use."
 - Sam Savage, The Flaw of Averages

Use Estimates (numbers taken from user input, based on hard data, soft data, subject matter expertise)

Derive from real data (although needs to be right type)

Frequency should be over standard unit of time, usually a year

Data structures
---------------

Use firebase cloudstore schema concepts 'collections' (⇱) and 'maps' (⌌).

```
⇱ Risks
 ⌌ Risk
   ⌌ Scope
    ⊳ Description
   ⌌ ThreatFrequency
     ⌌ ThreatEventFrequency
     ⌌ ThreatForce
     ⌌ ThreatResistance
   ⌌ LossMagnitude
     ⌌ PrimaryLoss
     ⇱ SecondaryLosses
      ⌌ RiskReference

⇱ Distributions (Triangular?)
 ⌌ Estimate
  ⊳ Min
  ⊳ Med
  ⊳ Max
  ⌌ Rationale
   ⊳ Name of Person
   ⊳ Title
   ⊳ Data used to inform (historical events, logs, external sources)
   ⊳ Controls considered
   ⊳ Remaining uncertainty
```

Algorithms
----------

ExpectedRisk = CalculateRisk (RiskMap)
GeneratedDistribution = TriangularDistribution (Estimate)

User stories
------------

AS a leadership team I
 - want an aggregated, visible measure of risk for a particular PS account
   so that I am aware of all identified risks in order that I can fulfil my responsibilities 
   and I can allocate limited resources more effectively to manage that risk

AS a infosec lead I
 - need a record keeping system for storing details pertaining to risk related to Infosec
 - want a visible measure of risk for a particular PS account
   so that I am aware of all identified risks in order that I can fulfil my responsibilities 

AS legal I
 - want to be able to see record detailed information about the contractual infosec exposure on a specific account

AS a CST I 
 - want to be able to see detailed information about the contractual infosec exposure on my account

Testing
-------
Aim to use 'Growing object oriented software driven by tests' approach, very few high level and slow happy path acceptance tests supported by well composed components with enough targetted subcutaneous tests. Aim to test drive functionality but not being religous about it. Seeing the value of testing as supporting good program structure and easing integration, in addition to correctness.

Things to test:
- UI
 - CRUD of risks
 - Dashboarding
 - Auth
- Datastore
 - Security rules
- Functions
 - Creating distributions/SIP

References
----------

- https://vimeo.com/70926140
- https://www.probabilitymanagement.org/stanford-webinar-videos
- https://mcdlr.com/utf-8/#8603
- http://blogs.reuters.com/felix-salmon/2009/08/23/the-flaw-of-averages/
- http://flawofaverages.com/lib/Red%20Words.pdf
